[Silence.]
[Music.]
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey.
That was how he got his name.
Hi there, friends.
I'm Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman.
Glad you come up this way up the trail again today.
So how about having the same old seat beside me here on this log right under the old pine trees?
Mighty pretty out here in the forest, isn't it?
That's cause we've kept fires from running wild through here.
We thought you might enjoy taking time out for a few moments of song and storytelling.
Of course, when I say we, I'm including those fellas just across the trail there, the Sons of the Pioneers.
[Music.]
Listen to the wind. Wonder what he's saying.
See that willow bend.
Everything is livin'.
Seems to be a sadness in the sight of the wind.
Ooh, wonder where he goes.
Darling, can you hear me?
Something that he knows Seems to bring you near me, But I heard you whisper in the silence of the wind.
Sets my weary heart a-longin', yearnin', dreamin'.
Starlight lost its meanin' since you went away.
Now he's burning cold. Wonder if he's lonely. Winter in my soul Longing for you only.
Can't you hear me calling in the sign of the wind?
The wind.
It can be so pleasant at times, so awful, so terrible at other times.
I'm thinking especially of the strong winds that through the years have combined with long periods of drought and human carelessness to give us the disastrous forest fires that blacken the pages of American history.
One of the worst forest fires this country has known happened back in 1871.
It was the Pestigo Fire in Wisconsin, and it began on the same day that the Great Chicago Fire started.
Over a million acres of valuable pine forests were burned out.
Entire towns and communities were destroyed.
1,500 people were killed.
And that was five times as many as in the Chicago Fire.
Now, in Minnesota, 1918, the Cloquet Fire started one October afternoon when the woods were tender dry from lack of rain.
Cloquet, a thriving sawmill town, was gutted and left in ashes.
$30 million worth of timberlands and property
went up and smoked.
400 people died in that fire.
And there have been other terrible forest fires in California, in Oregon, Texas, and in Maine.
Fire is no respecter of places, people, or property when the conditions of weather, wind, and fuel are right for it.
Then it only takes one moment to keep up with one wife to cause untold damage to the mystery.
You know, it's awfully bad, ladies and gentlemen, for fire or any reason.
From this valley they tell me you're leaving. I will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile For they say that you take all the sunshine
That has brightened my life for a while.
Then come linger a while before you leave me.
Do not hasten to bid me adieu.
But remember the Red River Valley And the friends who have loved you so true. Do you think of the valley you're leaving?
And the words that you never would say? Do you think of the poor heart you're breaking Just because you are going away? Then come linger a while before you leave me.
Do not hasten to bid me adieu.
But remember the Red River Valley.
And the friends who have loved you so true.
I was talking about the great forest fires we've had in this country.
In nearly every one of those, a single bucket of water thrown on the fire right at the start could have put it out.
Today, the state and federal foresters are better equipped to fight forest fires than they were years ago.
But just the same, putting out a forest fire, especially when it's a roaring, wild-running devil, is mean business.
There's back-breaking work in it and sweat.
And yes, sir, even heartbreak when the fire lines don't hold in the
the men must fall back and hit it again and again.
And yet, that's their job.
Now, what does all that mean to us, to you and me?
Well, sir, for one thing, it takes money to fight a forest fire.
Money that comes out of our pockets when you stop to think about it.
But maybe even more important than that, these natural resources the state and federal foresters protect from destruction, why, these resources belong to us.
And we can help protect them ourselves
just by being careful with fire.
And we ought to keep in mind that ours is an easier job.
We don't face the real danger that the firefighters do.
I know that the sons of the pioneers feel pretty keenly about this, too.
Isn't that right, Lloyd?
Yes, sir.
All over this great country of ours, in one place or another, fellows are going out day after day to fight fire.
Fire that often gets started because somebody is careless or forgets to think for a minute.
And in defense of their country's forests and your welfare and mine, those firefighters sometimes give up their lives.
We want to pay a little tribute to the men of every forest firefighting outfit, public and private alike, who went out to fight fire one day and, well, wound up at the end of the trail.
When an angry storm...And wild winds sweep the sky.
I'm sure that this must be the mystery of his way.
Then comes the glory morn.
And bright new things are born. All this that I may see The mystery of his way. So climb you to the highest mountain And look you to the world below.
Living things drank from his fountain Then reaching for the sky they grow. And in choral voice they sing, This is a wondrous thing.
And he will find a way To speak with you someday. So climb you to the highest mountain And look you to the world below.
Living things drink from his fountain Then reaching for the sky they grow. And in choral voice they sing,
This is a wondrous thing, and he will find a way to speak with you someday, to speak with you some day.
Mystery of his Way.
Yes, friends, human life is far too precious to have it lost in forest fires.
I can't think of a better reason in itself for us to take to heart what Smokey Bear keeps telling us.
And here he comes up the trail now, big as life, with a special message for us.
Hello there, folks.
For the country as a whole,
Nine out of ten forest fires are started through the carelessness of people like you, men, women, and children.
If everyone would just take time to think when he's using fire outdoors, you would be spared the terrible damage forest fires cause every year and the heavy cost of putting them out.
Remember always that only you can prevent forest fires.
Well, I'll be seeing you.
And there he goes down the trail.
Thank you, Smokey.
Friends, you know, it's your own state forestry department along with the United States Forest Service and this station you're listening to that make these little outdoor get-togethers possible.
Until we say hi to each other again, please keep in mind what Smokey Bear says.
Remember, only we, you and I, can prevent forest fires.
Well, it's so long for now from Billy Johnson, your singing woodman, and the Sons of the Pioneers.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear, prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear, prowlin' and a-growlin' and a sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear.
Prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear.
Prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they called him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
[Music.]
[Silence.]